docs/introduction.markdown, before:

## Pyret Language Introduction

### Basics

#### Hello world

    print("Hello World!")

Bonus: when you call `print()`, it first calls the builtin
`tostring()` function on the argument. This does sensible things
with base values, but for more complicated things, if you define
a `tostring` method, it will use that instead. 

#### Comments

Are single line, starting from the `#` character and running to the end of the line.

    # This is a comment
    foo(bar) # this is another comment

#### Whitespace

Is not significant except insofar as to separate pieces of syntax. So
there are places where you must place _some_ whitespace, but
indentation, nor how much whitespace (and what combination of newlines
and spaces) never matters.


#### Separators

There are also no line end separators. Pyret is semicolonless. 

#### Expressions

Most syntax in the language are expression forms, which means they can
appear almost anywhere in the syntax where it would make sense. The
exception are the binding forms - named function definitions, data
declarations, and variable binding. Binding forms can only appear in
[blocks](#blocks).

#### Objects

Most values in Pyret are objects. This means that the basic object operations
(adding fields and methods, looking stuff up, `branding` (to be
defined later) can be done on any of the normal types (the exceptions to this
rule are the special `nothing` value, and values you get when interacting with
the FFI, which gets you special wrapped up racket or javascript values).

### Values

#### Numbers

Written with or without decimals. Examples:

    4
    5.12
    -79

#### Booleans

There are only two:

    true
    false

#### Strings

Written as double quoted unicode strings. They may span multiple
lines. Character escapes like \n work, and the double quote character
can be included if escaped like \".

    "hello world"

    "hello out
     there"

    "an example\n\nwith explicit newline\ncharacters"

#### Nothing

`nothing` is a value that doesn't do anything. You can return it,
check for it, and in some cases, like if you have an empty function
body, you'll get access to it. You can't add fields to it. You write it like:

    nothing
    
#### Objects

Written as dictionary literals, in curly brace syntax. Keys are always
strings, and can be computed from an arbitrary expression, and should
be enclosed in square brackets. In the case of identifier-like keys
(ie, no spaces or other characters illegal in identifiers), they can
be written without the quotes or square brackets.

    {["foo" + "bar!"]: 10, baz: 20}

The fields can be accessed with dotted notation, with the same rules
about square brackets for arbitrary expressions, and identifier-like keys
written without.

    {foo: 10}.["fo" + "o"] # evaluates to 10

    {["foobar"]: 300}.foobar # evaluates to 300

Objects in Pyret are not mutable. To construct a new object with a new or
changed field from an old object, you use the following notation:

    o.{new-field: 10}

You can also add/change many fields:

    o.{fieldA: 10, fieldB: 20}

Or do this multiple times:

    o.{fieldA: 10}.{fieldB: 20}
    
#### Lists

Written as square bracket comma-separated values, lists can have any
value in them (they are heterogeneous). Lists are objects, so the
first element in the list (sometimes known as the head in other
languages) is accessed as the `first` field, and the rest of the list
(which is another list, potentially empty) is the `rest` field.

    [1,2,3].first # evaluates to 1
    [1,2,3].rest # evaluates to [2,3]
    [].first # is an error, since the list is empty

List notation is actually syntax sugar for a data definition in the Pyret
standard libraries. `[1,2,3]` is really `link(1,link(2,link(3,empty)))`
where `empty` is one constructor, that is an empty list, and `link` is another,
that takes a value and another list.

#### Functions

Function values are written with the `fun` keyword and then a comma separated
list of arguments followed by a body and then the keyword `end`. There is
no `return` statement as found in some languages - the last value produced (ie,
the last statement in the block) is the value that the function returns. For example:

    fun(x,y): x + y end

    fun(y):
      y * y
    end

Functions can be applied with parenthesis and then a comma separated
list of values.

    (fun(x): x end)(10) # evaluates to 10

Note that parenthesis can be added around any expression to either
disambiguate (in the case of binary operators), or simply for
clarity. We could just have easily written the previous example as:

    fun(x): x end(10)

Or:

    fun(x):
      x
    end(10)

But it might be more confusing. In general though, functions will
usually be bound to variables or passed as arguments instead of being used
immediately after construction.

You can (and should) add documentation to your functions. The best way to do that is with `doc`. On the first line of the function, you can write a documentation string. This will be available as the `_doc` attribute on your functions. Also, if you print out a function (or call the `tostring` built-in on it), it will print with the header and the doc string. For example:

    fun foo(x):
      doc: "my great foo function!"
      x # NOTE: improve!
    end

    print(foo) # prints "fun foo(x): 'my great foo function' end"

### Variables and Named Functions

We can bind any value to a name with `=`. This value cannot be changed
(though the binding can be shadowed). For example:

    f = fun(x): x end
    f(10) # evaluates to 10

Since we often want names for our functions, the following shorthand is possible:

    fun f(x): x end

Which will do the same as the previous example. It's also usually
preferred, as thinking / talking about functions is easier when they
have names.

Bindings are visible at the same scope level and in any nested scope
(ie, local function definitions, etc).

Sometimes you want to be able to change the value in a variable. For
example, we might have a deeply nested computation that needs to
record that sometimes specific happened, and threading the result out
isn't convenient.  For this, we have a separate declaration, and a way
to update those variables:

    var x = 10
    # ...
    x := 20

Note that it is an error to define a `var` to a identifier that is
already bound. Also, if you try to use an identifier that has not been
bound, that error will be caught before you run your program.

### More Values

#### Methods

Methods are a separate kind of value from functions. Given a function,
you can get a corresponding method, and the same is true in reverse,
but methods behave differently when inside objects. A methods is
written with the `method` keyword instead of `fun`. An example:

    method(self): 10 end

When a method is put in an object, it can be called as follows:

    o = {foo: method(self): 10 end}
    o.foo()

The first argument to the method will be bound to the value of the
object when it is called - the rest will be what is passed to the
call. This can be named anything, but we generally follow the
convention of naming it `self`. Since defining methods in objects is a
common pattern, we provide shorthand for the previous example:

    o = {foo(self): 10 end}
    o.foo()

Given a method, you can get a normal function with the `_fun` method, as follows:

    m = method(self): 10 end
    m._fun()

This could then be applied as a normal function, passing in a value for `self`:

    m = method(self): 10 end
    f = m._fun()
    f({bar: 20}) # evaluates to 10

Methods can also have doc strings, like functions, and they also print them out when
you call `tostring()` on them. For example:

    o = {foo(self): doc: "This function needs help..." 10 end}
    tostring(o.foo) # evaluates to "method foo(self): 'This function needs help...' end"

### Operators

Pyret does not have precedence for operators. The result is not
defined if you mix multiple types of operators - you must use
parethesis to disambiguate. For example:

    1 + 2 * 3 # undefined, and an error to write
    1 + (2 * 3) # what you should write

#### Equality

Equality works on the built-in values and on objects structurally (ie,
same keys and values). Functions and methods are never equal to
anything. To create objects that have methods or functions within them but can
be compared for equality, any object that has a "_equals" method that takes
`self` and another object and returns `true` or `false` can also be compared.

    2 == 3 # false
    2 <> 4 # true - this is our not equals


#### Arithmetic

The following operators are supported, with their normal math definition on
built in numbers:

    +
    -
    *
    /
    <=
    >=
    >
    <

Furthermore, like with equality, we support using math operators on your own
data types - any object that defines a "_plus" can be used with `+`, similar
for `_minus`, `_divide`, `_times`, `_lessequal`, `_greaterequal`, `_greaterthan`,
`_lessthan`. 

#### Boolean

We use infix `and` and `or`, and prefix `not`. These work on booleans,
and can also work on your own datatypes. You must define `_and`, `_or`
and/or `_not` methods, and note that `and`/`or` pass their second argument
as a zero-argument function. This is so that they can be
short-circuiting - if the left side of an `and` is false, there is no
need to evaluate the right side (so in your definitions, you can elect
to call the function or not). For example:

    true and true and false # evaluates to false
    true and (false or true) # evaluates to true
    not (true and false) # evaluates to true
    
### Control

#### Exceptions

Any value can be `raise`d, which causes control to immediately transfer to the
`catch` block of the closest (in terms of nesting) `try/except` block. The value
raised will be bound to the identifier inside the `except` clause. For example:

    try:
      10
      raise "Help"
      20 # control never reaches here
    except(e):
      e # is "Help"
    end

There can be any number of `try/except` blocks nested - the exception will
hit the first one available. For example:


    try:
      try:
        10
        raise "Help"
        20 # control never reaches here
      except(e):
        e # is "Help"
      end
    except(e):
      # control never reaches here 
    end

#### For loops

We present the common pattern of iteration in a simplified syntax. To `map` over a list,
running some block of code to produce a new value for each existing value, we can write:

    x = for map(elem from [1,2,3,4]):
      elem + 2
    end
    # x is [3,4,5,6]

There are also several other built in functions for this purpose:

    x = for filter(elem from [1,2,3,4])
      elem < 3
    end
    # x is [1,2]

    y = for fold(sum from 0, elem from [1,2,3]):
      sum + elem
    end
    # y is 6

And you are free to define your own `for` operators - they are functions that take
as their first arguments a function with the argument names from the left side of
the `from` clauses and has the body of the `for` block, and then the rest of
the arguments are the values from the right side of the `from` clauses.


#### If

Branching on conditionals is an `if` branch followed by zero or more
`else if` branches and an optional `else` branch. It is a runtime
error to not match one of the branches - if you are writing code to purely
cause side effects, write a `when` block instead. A few examples:

    if x < 10:
      print("Hello")
    else if x > 20:
      print("Yay")
    else:
      print("Aww...")
    end

    if false:
      # ...
    end

    if true and false:
      #...
    else:
      #...
    end

#### When blocks

Sometimes there is certain code that should only be run when something is true. This is
code that exists solely to _do_ something. For example:

    when n > 10:
      print("Oh No!")
    end

### Data

Pyret supports variant data types. This means that a single type may have
several examples of it, with different constructors. 

#### Definitions

One example that you've already seen is `List`. A list is either
`empty` (written `[]` as shorthand) or it is a `link` of an element
and another list. While very important to the code that we write,
`List`s are not a special internal value, they are just defined with
the `data` form. A simplified version of it is:

    data List:
      | empty
      | link(first, rest)
    end

This is the general syntax of a `data` definition: the name of the data type,
then a list of one or more variants, which may have attributes (like `link`)
does, or may not. The values of the type are constructed just like the variants
are written:

    x = empty
    y = link(10, empty)

This is the basic form. In addition to the functions to construct the
values, you also get functions to check whether values are of the
type. In this case, there are three functions: `List` checks if a
value is any type of `List`, `is-empty` checks if a value is the
`empty` value, and `is-link` checks if a value is a `link` value.

There's more that we can do with `data`. For example, if you define an
`_equals` method on your data type, it can be compared with
`==`. Methods can be added to `data` in two ways. They can either be
attached to all values of the data type, or just some variants. If you
define them per-variant, you should be careful if you don't define the
same methods on all variants, because using them might be hard! Here are
examples of the two ways:

    data List:
      | empty with
        length(self): 0 end
      | link(first, rest) with
        length(self): 1 + self.rest.length() end
    sharing:
      my-special-method(self):
        print("I'm a list!")
      end
    end

In both forms, there can be any number of comma-separated methods.

#### Cases

A common pattern is to do different things based on the variant of
your `data` definition. You could use `if` statements, but it gets
clumsy quickly. Instead, `cases` allows you to write branches just like the
data definition. For example:

    cases(List) x:
      | empty => print("An empty list!")
      | link(first, rest) => print("A non-empty list!")
    end

Note that if you don't care about a specific attribute, you can always
replace it with an underscore. Since we use neither `first` nor `rest`
in the previous example, we could write it as:

    cases(List) x:
      | empty => print("An empty list!")
      | link(_, _) => print("A non-empty list!")
    end

Which makes it clearer to the reader, especially if the blocks become
large, what we are and aren't going to use.

Finally, it is an error, caught at runtime, to pass a value that isn't
of the type inside the `cases`. And, you don't have to provide all the
variants, and you can provide them in whatever order you want. If you
want to have a catch-all, `else` is valid. For example:

    cases(List) x:
      | link(first, _) => first
      | else => nothing
    end

It is an error to not match any branch, so if you don't include all
your variants, either include an `else` or be sure that only the
variants listed will ever be passed in.


### Check blocks

One of the more interesting features of Pyret is the `check` block. At
the end of any function or data definition, or in any block, you can
add a `check` block, which contains code that asserts various
properties about the function or data definition (or just tests things
in general). If you run Pyret in `check` mode, we run these
blocks. The novel feature is that you can put `check` blocks on nested
functions, and they will be run with the arguments to the outer
function from outer `check` blocks, which allows sensible testing of
nested functions. For example:

    fun fact(n):
      fun fact_(n, acc):
        if n <= 1:
          acc
        else:
          fact_(n - 1, acc * n)
        end
      check:
        fact_(0, 0) is 0
        fact_(n, 0) is 0
        fact_(3, 3) is 18
        fact_(5, 1) is 120
      end
      fact_(n, 1)
    check:
      fact(1) is 1
      fact(5) is 120
      fact(3) is 6
    end

Note that in the inner tests, we were able to use `n`. In this case,
it wasn't very important, but sometimes helper functions only make
sense in the context of outer data, and setting up testing harnesses
can be really hard. In this case, the inner data is provided by the
outer tests (so the inner check block runs 3 times, once each with `n`
defined as 1, 5, and 3).

### Annotations

Pyret is not currently a type language, but it allows type-like
annotations that are checked when running your programs. In the
future, some or most of these will be turned into compile time
type-checking, so that your annotated programs will become safer
without paying any runtime cost. Annotations can be added to function
arguments, to variable bindings, and to the attributes in data
variants. For base types, the annotations should look like:

    x :: Number = 10
    fun(y :: String) -> String: x end # an error
    data Foo:
      | foo(a :: Bool, b :: Nothing, c :: List, d :: Any)
    end

`Any` is a special annotation that matches anything. You can leave it
off, but it makes it clear to anyone reading your code (including
yourself) that you really mean it to be anything.

If you noticed `List` in there, you'll realize that any data type
that you define can also be used in an annotation.

You can also define arbitrary predicates. For example:

    fun non-negative(n :: Number) -> Bool:
      n >= 0
    end

    fun replicate(n :: Number(non-negative), e) -> List:
      if n == 0:
        []
      else:
        link(e, replicate(n - 1))
      end
    end

And if you were to call `replicate` with a negative number, it would
not run (instead of running forever).      


### Brands

Data is actually built from lower level constructs within Pyret. What
Pyret uses to verify that different values are indeed different data
types are `brands`.  A brand can be applied to any value (except
`nothing`), and the presence of that brand can be checked later. New
brands can be constructed at any time. For example, if you had an expensive
computation you had to run to verify that a piece of data behaved a certain
way and didn't want to have to re-run it, you could write code like:

    verified = brander()
    fun expensive-check(x):
      #...
      verified.brand(x)
    end
    
    fun run(x):
      if not verified.test(x):
        foo(expensive-check(x))
      else:
        foo(x)
      end
    end

    y = []
    z = expensive-check([])

    run(y) # runs expensive-check
    run(z) # doesn't run expensive-check  

Note that since objects are not mutable, the `.brand` method returns a
new object with the brand added. You are welcome to use `brander`s for
whatever you want - we think they are an interesting pattern for
controlling a certain kind of truth within a program (of which a type
is just one example).

### Blocks

There are many block forms in Pyret. In any block, any number of
statements / expressions can be put. The last one will be what the block
evaluates to, which has different meanings depending on the context. The
blocks are:

- top level of a `.arr` file (or Captain Teach editor)
- `function` bodies
- `method` bodies
- `check` bodies
- `if`, `else if`, and `else` branches
- inside `when`
- between `try` and `except`, and `except` and `end`
- in the branches of `cases`

Commit message:

add mention of colon for raw field lookup

docs/introduction.markdown, after:

## Pyret Language Introduction

### Basics

#### Hello world

    print("Hello World!")

Bonus: when you call `print()`, it first calls the builtin
`tostring()` function on the argument. This does sensible things
with base values, but for more complicated things, if you define
a `tostring` method, it will use that instead. 

#### Comments

Are single line, starting from the `#` character and running to the end of the line.

    # This is a comment
    foo(bar) # this is another comment

#### Whitespace

Is not significant except insofar as to separate pieces of syntax. So
there are places where you must place _some_ whitespace, but
indentation, nor how much whitespace (and what combination of newlines
and spaces) never matters.


#### Separators

There are also no line end separators. Pyret is semicolonless. 

#### Expressions

Most syntax in the language are expression forms, which means they can
appear almost anywhere in the syntax where it would make sense. The
exception are the binding forms - named function definitions, data
declarations, and variable binding. Binding forms can only appear in
[blocks](#blocks).

#### Objects

Most values in Pyret are objects. This means that the basic object operations
(adding fields and methods, looking stuff up, `branding` (to be
defined later) can be done on any of the normal types (the exceptions to this
rule are the special `nothing` value, and values you get when interacting with
the FFI, which gets you special wrapped up racket or javascript values).

### Values

#### Numbers

Written with or without decimals. Examples:

    4
    5.12
    -79

#### Booleans

There are only two:

    true
    false

#### Strings

Written as double quoted unicode strings. They may span multiple
lines. Character escapes like \n work, and the double quote character
can be included if escaped like \".

    "hello world"

    "hello out
     there"

    "an example\n\nwith explicit newline\ncharacters"

#### Nothing

`nothing` is a value that doesn't do anything. You can return it,
check for it, and in some cases, like if you have an empty function
body, you'll get access to it. You can't add fields to it. You write it like:

    nothing
    
#### Objects

Written as dictionary literals, in curly brace syntax. Keys are always
strings, and can be computed from an arbitrary expression, and should
be enclosed in square brackets. In the case of identifier-like keys
(ie, no spaces or other characters illegal in identifiers), they can
be written without the quotes or square brackets.

    {["foo" + "bar!"]: 10, baz: 20}

The fields can be accessed with dotted notation, with the same rules
about square brackets for arbitrary expressions, and identifier-like keys
written without.

    {foo: 10}.["fo" + "o"] # evaluates to 10

    {["foobar"]: 300}.foobar # evaluates to 300

Objects in Pyret are not mutable. To construct a new object with a new or
changed field from an old object, you use the following notation:

    o.{new-field: 10}

You can also add/change many fields:

    o.{fieldA: 10, fieldB: 20}

Or do this multiple times:

    o.{fieldA: 10}.{fieldB: 20}

Finally, if you want to just get out a raw value (this is currently
only useful for methods - if you want the method value itself, not it
in the context of the current object), you can access fields with
colon. For example:

    o = { foo(self): 10 end, b: 20 }
    o:b == o.b # is true
    m = o:foo
    m() # an error - can't apply bare methods
    f = m._fun()
    f({}) # evaluates to 10 - note that you have to apply it to a self
    o2 = o.{ newmeth = m }
    o2.m() # evaluates to 10 - because now we accessed it with normal dot.
    
#### Lists

Written as square bracket comma-separated values, lists can have any
value in them (they are heterogeneous). Lists are objects, so the
first element in the list (sometimes known as the head in other
languages) is accessed as the `first` field, and the rest of the list
(which is another list, potentially empty) is the `rest` field.

    [1,2,3].first # evaluates to 1
    [1,2,3].rest # evaluates to [2,3]
    [].first # is an error, since the list is empty

List notation is actually syntax sugar for a data definition in the Pyret
standard libraries. `[1,2,3]` is really `link(1,link(2,link(3,empty)))`
where `empty` is one constructor, that is an empty list, and `link` is another,
that takes a value and another list.

#### Functions

Function values are written with the `fun` keyword and then a comma separated
list of arguments followed by a body and then the keyword `end`. There is
no `return` statement as found in some languages - the last value produced (ie,
the last statement in the block) is the value that the function returns. For example:

    fun(x,y): x + y end

    fun(y):
      y * y
    end

Functions can be applied with parenthesis and then a comma separated
list of values.

    (fun(x): x end)(10) # evaluates to 10

Note that parenthesis can be added around any expression to either
disambiguate (in the case of binary operators), or simply for
clarity. We could just have easily written the previous example as:

    fun(x): x end(10)

Or:

    fun(x):
      x
    end(10)

But it might be more confusing. In general though, functions will
usually be bound to variables or passed as arguments instead of being used
immediately after construction.

You can (and should) add documentation to your functions. The best way to do that is with `doc`. On the first line of the function, you can write a documentation string. This will be available as the `_doc` attribute on your functions. Also, if you print out a function (or call the `tostring` built-in on it), it will print with the header and the doc string. For example:

    fun foo(x):
      doc: "my great foo function!"
      x # NOTE: improve!
    end

    print(foo) # prints "fun foo(x): 'my great foo function' end"

### Variables and Named Functions

We can bind any value to a name with `=`. This value cannot be changed
(though the binding can be shadowed). For example:

    f = fun(x): x end
    f(10) # evaluates to 10

Since we often want names for our functions, the following shorthand is possible:

    fun f(x): x end

Which will do the same as the previous example. It's also usually
preferred, as thinking / talking about functions is easier when they
have names.

Bindings are visible at the same scope level and in any nested scope
(ie, local function definitions, etc).

Sometimes you want to be able to change the value in a variable. For
example, we might have a deeply nested computation that needs to
record that sometimes specific happened, and threading the result out
isn't convenient.  For this, we have a separate declaration, and a way
to update those variables:

    var x = 10
    # ...
    x := 20

Note that it is an error to define a `var` to a identifier that is
already bound. Also, if you try to use an identifier that has not been
bound, that error will be caught before you run your program.

### More Values

#### Methods

Methods are a separate kind of value from functions. Given a function,
you can get a corresponding method, and the same is true in reverse,
but methods behave differently when inside objects. A methods is
written with the `method` keyword instead of `fun`. An example:

    method(self): 10 end

When a method is put in an object, it can be called as follows:

    o = {foo: method(self): 10 end}
    o.foo()

The first argument to the method will be bound to the value of the
object when it is called - the rest will be what is passed to the
call. This can be named anything, but we generally follow the
convention of naming it `self`. Since defining methods in objects is a
common pattern, we provide shorthand for the previous example:

    o = {foo(self): 10 end}
    o.foo()

Given a method, you can get a normal function with the `_fun` method, as follows:

    m = method(self): 10 end
    m._fun()

This could then be applied as a normal function, passing in a value for `self`:

    m = method(self): 10 end
    f = m._fun()
    f({bar: 20}) # evaluates to 10

Methods can also have doc strings, like functions, and they also print them out when
you call `tostring()` on them. For example:

    o = {foo(self): doc: "This function needs help..." 10 end}
    tostring(o.foo) # evaluates to "method foo(self): 'This function needs help...' end"

### Operators

Pyret does not have precedence for operators. The result is not
defined if you mix multiple types of operators - you must use
parethesis to disambiguate. For example:

    1 + 2 * 3 # undefined, and an error to write
    1 + (2 * 3) # what you should write

#### Equality

Equality works on the built-in values and on objects structurally (ie,
same keys and values). Functions and methods are never equal to
anything. To create objects that have methods or functions within them but can
be compared for equality, any object that has a "_equals" method that takes
`self` and another object and returns `true` or `false` can also be compared.

    2 == 3 # false
    2 <> 4 # true - this is our not equals


#### Arithmetic

The following operators are supported, with their normal math definition on
built in numbers:

    +
    -
    *
    /
    <=
    >=
    >
    <

Furthermore, like with equality, we support using math operators on your own
data types - any object that defines a "_plus" can be used with `+`, similar
for `_minus`, `_divide`, `_times`, `_lessequal`, `_greaterequal`, `_greaterthan`,
`_lessthan`. 

#### Boolean

We use infix `and` and `or`, and prefix `not`. These work on booleans,
and can also work on your own datatypes. You must define `_and`, `_or`
and/or `_not` methods, and note that `and`/`or` pass their second argument
as a zero-argument function. This is so that they can be
short-circuiting - if the left side of an `and` is false, there is no
need to evaluate the right side (so in your definitions, you can elect
to call the function or not). For example:

    true and true and false # evaluates to false
    true and (false or true) # evaluates to true
    not (true and false) # evaluates to true
    
### Control

#### Exceptions

Any value can be `raise`d, which causes control to immediately transfer to the
`catch` block of the closest (in terms of nesting) `try/except` block. The value
raised will be bound to the identifier inside the `except` clause. For example:

    try:
      10
      raise "Help"
      20 # control never reaches here
    except(e):
      e # is "Help"
    end

There can be any number of `try/except` blocks nested - the exception will
hit the first one available. For example:


    try:
      try:
        10
        raise "Help"
        20 # control never reaches here
      except(e):
        e # is "Help"
      end
    except(e):
      # control never reaches here 
    end

#### For loops

We present the common pattern of iteration in a simplified syntax. To `map` over a list,
running some block of code to produce a new value for each existing value, we can write:

    x = for map(elem from [1,2,3,4]):
      elem + 2
    end
    # x is [3,4,5,6]

There are also several other built in functions for this purpose:

    x = for filter(elem from [1,2,3,4])
      elem < 3
    end
    # x is [1,2]

    y = for fold(sum from 0, elem from [1,2,3]):
      sum + elem
    end
    # y is 6

And you are free to define your own `for` operators - they are functions that take
as their first arguments a function with the argument names from the left side of
the `from` clauses and has the body of the `for` block, and then the rest of
the arguments are the values from the right side of the `from` clauses.


#### If

Branching on conditionals is an `if` branch followed by zero or more
`else if` branches and an optional `else` branch. It is a runtime
error to not match one of the branches - if you are writing code to purely
cause side effects, write a `when` block instead. A few examples:

    if x < 10:
      print("Hello")
    else if x > 20:
      print("Yay")
    else:
      print("Aww...")
    end

    if false:
      # ...
    end

    if true and false:
      #...
    else:
      #...
    end

#### When blocks

Sometimes there is certain code that should only be run when something is true. This is
code that exists solely to _do_ something. For example:

    when n > 10:
      print("Oh No!")
    end

### Data

Pyret supports variant data types. This means that a single type may have
several examples of it, with different constructors. 

#### Definitions

One example that you've already seen is `List`. A list is either
`empty` (written `[]` as shorthand) or it is a `link` of an element
and another list. While very important to the code that we write,
`List`s are not a special internal value, they are just defined with
the `data` form. A simplified version of it is:

    data List:
      | empty
      | link(first, rest)
    end

This is the general syntax of a `data` definition: the name of the data type,
then a list of one or more variants, which may have attributes (like `link`)
does, or may not. The values of the type are constructed just like the variants
are written:

    x = empty
    y = link(10, empty)

This is the basic form. In addition to the functions to construct the
values, you also get functions to check whether values are of the
type. In this case, there are three functions: `List` checks if a
value is any type of `List`, `is-empty` checks if a value is the
`empty` value, and `is-link` checks if a value is a `link` value.

There's more that we can do with `data`. For example, if you define an
`_equals` method on your data type, it can be compared with
`==`. Methods can be added to `data` in two ways. They can either be
attached to all values of the data type, or just some variants. If you
define them per-variant, you should be careful if you don't define the
same methods on all variants, because using them might be hard! Here are
examples of the two ways:

    data List:
      | empty with
        length(self): 0 end
      | link(first, rest) with
        length(self): 1 + self.rest.length() end
    sharing:
      my-special-method(self):
        print("I'm a list!")
      end
    end

In both forms, there can be any number of comma-separated methods.

#### Cases

A common pattern is to do different things based on the variant of
your `data` definition. You could use `if` statements, but it gets
clumsy quickly. Instead, `cases` allows you to write branches just like the
data definition. For example:

    cases(List) x:
      | empty => print("An empty list!")
      | link(first, rest) => print("A non-empty list!")
    end

Note that if you don't care about a specific attribute, you can always
replace it with an underscore. Since we use neither `first` nor `rest`
in the previous example, we could write it as:

    cases(List) x:
      | empty => print("An empty list!")
      | link(_, _) => print("A non-empty list!")
    end

Which makes it clearer to the reader, especially if the blocks become
large, what we are and aren't going to use.

Finally, it is an error, caught at runtime, to pass a value that isn't
of the type inside the `cases`. And, you don't have to provide all the
variants, and you can provide them in whatever order you want. If you
want to have a catch-all, `else` is valid. For example:

    cases(List) x:
      | link(first, _) => first
      | else => nothing
    end

It is an error to not match any branch, so if you don't include all
your variants, either include an `else` or be sure that only the
variants listed will ever be passed in.


### Check blocks

One of the more interesting features of Pyret is the `check` block. At
the end of any function or data definition, or in any block, you can
add a `check` block, which contains code that asserts various
properties about the function or data definition (or just tests things
in general). If you run Pyret in `check` mode, we run these
blocks. The novel feature is that you can put `check` blocks on nested
functions, and they will be run with the arguments to the outer
function from outer `check` blocks, which allows sensible testing of
nested functions. For example:

    fun fact(n):
      fun fact_(n, acc):
        if n <= 1:
          acc
        else:
          fact_(n - 1, acc * n)
        end
      check:
        fact_(0, 0) is 0
        fact_(n, 0) is 0
        fact_(3, 3) is 18
        fact_(5, 1) is 120
      end
      fact_(n, 1)
    check:
      fact(1) is 1
      fact(5) is 120
      fact(3) is 6
    end

Note that in the inner tests, we were able to use `n`. In this case,
it wasn't very important, but sometimes helper functions only make
sense in the context of outer data, and setting up testing harnesses
can be really hard. In this case, the inner data is provided by the
outer tests (so the inner check block runs 3 times, once each with `n`
defined as 1, 5, and 3).

### Annotations

Pyret is not currently a type language, but it allows type-like
annotations that are checked when running your programs. In the
future, some or most of these will be turned into compile time
type-checking, so that your annotated programs will become safer
without paying any runtime cost. Annotations can be added to function
arguments, to variable bindings, and to the attributes in data
variants. For base types, the annotations should look like:

    x :: Number = 10
    fun(y :: String) -> String: x end # an error
    data Foo:
      | foo(a :: Bool, b :: Nothing, c :: List, d :: Any)
    end

`Any` is a special annotation that matches anything. You can leave it
off, but it makes it clear to anyone reading your code (including
yourself) that you really mean it to be anything.

If you noticed `List` in there, you'll realize that any data type
that you define can also be used in an annotation.

You can also define arbitrary predicates. For example:

    fun non-negative(n :: Number) -> Bool:
      n >= 0
    end

    fun replicate(n :: Number(non-negative), e) -> List:
      if n == 0:
        []
      else:
        link(e, replicate(n - 1))
      end
    end

And if you were to call `replicate` with a negative number, it would
not run (instead of running forever).      


### Brands

Data is actually built from lower level constructs within Pyret. What
Pyret uses to verify that different values are indeed different data
types are `brands`.  A brand can be applied to any value (except
`nothing`), and the presence of that brand can be checked later. New
brands can be constructed at any time. For example, if you had an expensive
computation you had to run to verify that a piece of data behaved a certain
way and didn't want to have to re-run it, you could write code like:

    verified = brander()
    fun expensive-check(x):
      #...
      verified.brand(x)
    end
    
    fun run(x):
      if not verified.test(x):
        foo(expensive-check(x))
      else:
        foo(x)
      end
    end

    y = []
    z = expensive-check([])

    run(y) # runs expensive-check
    run(z) # doesn't run expensive-check  

Note that since objects are not mutable, the `.brand` method returns a
new object with the brand added. You are welcome to use `brander`s for
whatever you want - we think they are an interesting pattern for
controlling a certain kind of truth within a program (of which a type
is just one example).

### Blocks

There are many block forms in Pyret. In any block, any number of
statements / expressions can be put. The last one will be what the block
evaluates to, which has different meanings depending on the context. The
blocks are:

- top level of a `.arr` file (or Captain Teach editor)
- `function` bodies
- `method` bodies
- `check` bodies
- `if`, `else if`, and `else` branches
- inside `when`
- between `try` and `except`, and `except` and `end`
- in the branches of `cases`
